📰 COMPLETE NEWS DIGEST (12 Jul 2025 17:46)

📋 Total Articles: 8

====================================================================================================

🎯 ARTICLE 1: Air India: India begins downloading data from recorders of crashed Dreamliner
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cp3l4y5ngl2o

India recovers data from crashed Air India flight recorders

It could be several weeks before the federal government is able to release information gathered from the recorders.

Investigators had earlier recovered both sets of Enhanced Airborne Flight Recorders (EAFRs) - the "black boxes" - from the Boeing 787 crash site on 13 and 16 June - one from a rooftop, the other from the debris.

At least 270 people were killed when the London-bound Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner crashed less than a minute after taking off on 12 June from Ahmedabad airport in western India.

Investigators have recovered flight recorder data from the Air India crash earlier this month, the civil aviation ministry has confirmed, marking a key step in the probe.

The particular aircraft model carries the two recorder sets to aid in thorough analysis. These combined units record flight data and cockpit audio.

Data recorders track with high precision the position of gear and flap levers, thrust settings, engine performance, fuel flow and even fire handle activation.

The data can be used to reconstruct the flight's final moments and determine the cause of the incident.

The cockpit voice recorder (CVR) captures pilot radio calls, individual mic audio, and ambient cockpit sounds via an area microphone.

The aviation ministry said data from the recorder was accessed on Wednesday by a team led by India's Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), with the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).

"The analysis of CVR and FDR [flight data recorder] data is underway. These efforts aim to reconstruct the sequence of events leading to the accident and identify contributing factors to enhance aviation safety and prevent future occurrences," the ministry said in a statement.

Meanwhile, US National Transportation Safety Board chair Jennifer Homendy told Reuters news agency that she hopes the Indian government will be able to share details from the investigation into the crash in short order.

"For aviation safety and for public safety and public awareness we hope that they will make their findings public swiftly," Homendy said on the sidelines of an aviation event.

She said the NTSB team has been working diligently to provide assistance to India and "we have had excellent cooperation from the Indian government and the AAIB."

India's decision to download and investigate data from the flight recorders comes nearly two weeks after the crash and has raised questions among aviation experts, some of whom described the delay as unusual.

Air India Flight 171 was airborne for less than 40 seconds before it crashed into a crowded Ahmedabad neighbourhood, killing all but one of the 242 passengers on board, in one of India's most puzzling air disasters in recent memory.

The London-bound Boeing 787, piloted by Captain Sumeet Sabharwal and co-pilot Clive Kundar, took off at 13:39 local time, but issued a mayday call moments later - its final transmission.

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 2: British man is only passenger to survive India plane crash
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ce3v6drp96zo

British man is only passenger to survive India plane crash

12 June 2025 Share Save André Rhoden-Paul BBC News Share Save

Reuters Vishwashkumar Ramesh meets Indian interior minister Amit Shah in hospital

A British man has walked away from the wreckage of the Air India crash that killed 241 people in an extraordinary tale of survival. Vishwashkumar Ramesh was in seat 11A on the London-bound Boeing 787 flight when it crashed shortly after take off in Ahmedabad, western India. Mr Ramesh's brother, Nayan Kumar Ramesh, told BBC News Vishwashkumar "has no idea how he survived" and escaped the plane as the only survivor. Air India said all other passengers and crew were killed - including 169 Indian nationals and 52 Britons.

Watch: British passenger survives India plane crash, reports say

Nayan told the BBC "it feels great seeing him [Vishwashkumar] doing well" but he was worried about his other brother Ajay, who was also onboard. "We were all in shock as soon as we heard what happened, just utter shock. Speechless," he said. "He [Vishwashkumar] himself has no idea how he survived, how he got out the plane. "When he called us he was just more worried about my other brother, like 'Find Ajay, find Ajay.' That's all he cares about at the moment." A relative called Jay told the PA news agency: "He's got some injuries on his face. He was painted in blood. He's doing well I think. It's a big shock." Video shared on social media showed Mr Ramesh walking towards an ambulance, with smoke billowing in the background. He was later seen in a hospital bed meeting Indian interior minister Amit Shah. Dr Dhaval Gameti, who treated Mr Ramesh, said: "He was disorientated, with multiple injuries all over his body. But he seems to be out of danger." Indian media said he shared his boarding pass, which showed his name and seat number. The businessman, who was born in India and has lived in the UK since 2003, has a wife and four-year-old son.

Nayan Kumar Ramesh talks about his surviving brother Vishwashkumar

The plane crashed into accommodation used by trainee doctors less than a minute after take-off in Ahmedabad in the state of Gujarat. It is not clear how many people on the ground died and the cause of the crash is still unknown. Three Britons thought to have died on the flight have been named by Gloucester Muslim Society as Akeel Nanabawa, his wife Hannaa Vorajee and their daughter Sara. "They touched lots of people and they will be missed by lots of people," imam Abdullah Samad. Couple Fiongal and Jamie Greenlaw-Meek, who run a spiritual wellness centre in London, are also thought to have been on the flight. They laughed and joked in an Instagram video as they told of their "10-hour flight back to England". Their firm the Wellness Foundry has been approached for comment. Also on the plane were Javed and his wife Mariam Syed, from West London, alongside their two young children. Ammaarah Taju, the granddaughter of a couple from Blackburn who were onboard the flight, said she was in shock and disbelief. Adam Taju, 72, and his wife Hasina, 70, were flying back from Ahmedabad's International Airport with their 51-year-old son-in-law, Altafhusen Patel who lives in London with his wife.

Family handout Akeel Nanabawa and Hannaa Vorajee were on a surprise trip to India with their daughter Sara

In a statement from the King, he said he and his wife were "desperately shocked by the terrible events in Ahmedabad this morning". "Our special prayers and deepest possible sympathy are with the families and friends of all those affected by this appallingly tragic incident across so many nations, as they await news of their loved ones," the statement added. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said his thoughts were with the families who were going to be "absolutely devastated by this awful news", while his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi said it was "heart-breaking beyond words". UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy has arranged crisis teams in India and the UK, and has chaired a meeting of the government's emergency committee in response to the crash. London Gatwick Airport confirmed that a reception centre for relatives of passengers was being set up where information would be provided, and that it was liaising closely with Air India. It said on X: "British nationals who require consular assistance or have concerns about friends or family should call 0207 008 5000."

Verified video shows Air India plane descending moments before crash

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 3: Air India plane crash death toll rises to 270
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0575me7j82o

Air India plane crash death toll rises to 270

Vigils honouring the dead have been taking place across India and the UK

Vigils honouring the dead have taken place across India and the UK.

Officials have also been trying to establish how many people were killed on the ground and have been continuing the slow process of matching DNA samples to confirm the victims' identities.

The London-bound aircraft crashed into a residential area shortly after take-off killing all but one of the 242 passengers and crew members, a 40-year-old British man.

Doctors in India say 270 bodies have been recovered from the site of Thursday's plane crash in Ahmedabad.

About 100 people gathered outside the High Commission of India in London on Sunday, with many laying candles in memory of those who died in the crash.

One community leader said they had been in touch with a family who had flown to India to identify the remains of their loved ones and were waiting in hospital for the results of DNA matching.

Many people at the gathering want answers on how and why the incident could have happened, the community leader said.

India's Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is leading the inquiry into the cause of the crash, helped by teams from the US and UK.

On Friday, a black box was found at the site of the crash which India's civil aviation minister, Ram Mohan Naidu Kinjarapu, said would "significantly aid the inquiry" into the disaster.

Less than 60 seconds after leaving Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, the plane lost altitude and crashed into a building that was used as doctors' accommodation at the BJ Medical College and Civil Hospital.

On Saturday, the President of the Junior Doctors' Association of the college, Dr Dhaval Gameti, confirmed the hospital had received the bodies of 270 victims.

Of those, 241 are believed to be passengers and crew of Flight AI171.

More than thirty victims have also been formally identified using DNA samples provided by relatives.

According to data by tracking website, Flightradar24, the Boeing Dreamliner 787-8 was 11 years old and had operated 25 flights from Ahmedabad to London Gatwick in the past two years.

In response to Thursday's crash, India's aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), ordered additional safety checks on Air India's Boeing 787-8 and 787-9 fleet, describing it as a "preventive measure".

India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi spent around 20 minutes walking around the site of the plane crash on Friday.

He also visited the hospital to meet some of those injured in the disaster, including the sole plane survivor Vishwashkumar Ramesh, later saying that "the entire nation is praying for their speedy recovery".

Air India CEO Campbell Wilson also went to the crash site on Friday and described the visit as "deeply moving".

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 4: England vs India: Smriti Mandhana hits stunning hundred as tourists win first T20
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/cricket/articles/cx23w29edp8o

Smriti Mandhana scored a stunning century as India inflicted England's heaviest T20 defeat by runs with a comprehensive 97-run triumph at Trent Bridge.

The opener blitzed 112 from 62 balls for her maiden T20 international hundred as India posted 210-5 on a flat surface in the series opener.

It was the second-highest total England have conceded in the format and they had no answer to the class of Mandhana, who struck 15 fours and three sixes in a remarkable innings.

The 28-year-old left-hander put England under pressure from the off and, with number three Harleen Deol contributing a rapid 43 from 23 balls, helped India post their second-highest T20I total.

It was a stark reminder of the work England still have to do following the encouraging T20 and one-day international series sweeps of the West Indies to kick-off the new era under coach Charlotte Edwards.

That feeling was only amplified as the home side lost four wickets in the first seven overs of the chase, captain Nat Sciver-Brunt providing the only resistance.

The game was long gone by the time Sciver-Brunt was eventually dismissed for 66 off 42 balls as England slumped to 113 all out with India left-arm spinner Shree Charani taking 4-12 on debut.

A five-match series gives England plenty of time to try and put things right but there is plenty to be addressed before Tuesday's second T20 at Bristol.

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 5: Air India crash: Firefighters douse flames amid rescue operations
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/videos/cr58y7lyy31o

Footage shows firefighters dousing flames after an Air India plane crashed shortly after take-off in Ahmedabad, western India.

The flight, carrying 242 people, was bound for London Gatwick.

There were 169 Indian nationals on the flight, as well as 53 Britons, one Canadian national and seven Portuguese nationals, Air India has said.

More on this story.

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 6: Air India plane crash - how the day unfolded
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/videos/cx2q3z716v9o

A London-bound Air India plane carrying 242 people crashed into a residential area shortly after take-off in Ahmedabad, western India.

The airline says 241 people on the plane were killed - one passenger, a British national, survived and is receiving treatment in hospital.

Dramatic footage shows the aircraft taking off before coming down in a built-up area.

Plumes of black smoke are then seen rising high into the sky after an explosion. Authorities launched a major rescue operation.

Briton Vishwashkumar Ramesh survived the crash, and met the Indian home affairs minister in hospital.

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 7: Verified video shows Air India plane descending and moment of crash
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Not specified
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/videos/cy4kxq9e9gqo

A video showing the moment a London-bound Air India flight crashed in India is now verified.

BBC Verify has geolocated Air India flight AI171 to a location in Ahmedabad which is consistent with the flight path between the runway and the crash site.

The appearance of the aircraft in the footage is consistent with an Air India plane.

Follow live updates on this story.

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

🎯 ARTICLE 8: England vs India: Jofra Archer must play at Lord's - James Anderson
📅 Published: None
✍️ Authors: Stephan Shemilt
🔗 URL: https://www.bbc.com/sport/cricket/articles/cwyrx6wkez5o

England have "got to" play Jofra Archer in the third Test against India at Lord's, says James Anderson.

The pace bowler is in line to play his first Test for more than four years after a string of injuries.

The 30-year-old's route back to fitness has been almost exclusively in white-ball cricket.

He made his red-ball comeback for Sussex against Durham in the County Championship two weeks ago, bowling 18 overs.

Anderson, England's all-time leading wicket-taker, told the Tailenders podcast: "You could keep trying to build his overs up and play him later in the series, but it could be too late by then."

Anderson was part of the England team when Archer last played a Test, against India in Ahmedabad in 2021.

The 42-year-old has since retired from Test cricket and spent time on the England coaching staff as a fast-bowling consultant.

Archer returned to the England squad for the second Test at Edgbaston, which India won by 336 runs to level the series at 1-1. The third Test begins on Thursday.

"I think he will play," said Anderson.

"He's played one game for Sussex, he was around the team at Edgbaston and bowled a bit. I just feel like you've got to play him. It's too crucial a game not to."

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■

